good morning everybody I hope you we
understand me even with my French accent
I'm going to try to talk slowly so
everybody can understand especially the
Japanese people in the books they told
me to choose peace talk slowly otherwise
we don't understand anything um I want
to talk about advanced cos so what is
advanced EOF something like a month ago
somebody came into Maya into my office
and say hey you're going to have a talk
ewww you're going to talk about advanced
cos I can say okay what am I going to
talk about I say oh it's your problem
you know that's adds on to us you know
you're the advanced wave guide deal with
it so I took a piece of paper and
started you know jotting notes on it and
say okay and what can I talk about I can
talk about how how to write an adapter
or I can talk about how does some stupid
things that see some customer doing I
can talk about all the features in us
you know we have plenty of features and
and I want to see the other member of
the team and ask you know what can I
talk about and everybody had a different
idea about what I should talk about and
I didn't end up with this list I could
have filled the 18 sessions just with
just the content of the list so it was
really hard to find something that
advanced and something that's
interesting and I finally try to reduce
the thing in a session that lasts just
an hour I'd have trying to reduce it and
reduce it and then real cessation and it
was C 2 hours so I reduce it a little
more and I did not always imagine that I
contain only two items but these are
good items first I came is what I want
to cover is how do you do a good
entreprise object you know what's what
what's the process what should be the
mindset in a diversity respect on the
way it's exactly a really odd problem
when you see all the demos of director
Java client director web
or any any kind of world objects demo
you know you see the demo is always
starting oh I have this model if I have
someone like this you know just drop it
there but actually making the model file
and getting to this way I can just drop
some models by in your application and
having everything work is that we quite
tough so I want to talk to talk about
this going to take half of my time and
the second thing I want to talk about is
about a new featuring features in four
five we introduced a lot of really cool
thing in four five and who in the room
is using four five that's that's okay so
I want to point out what are the little
things that we did and the big thing
that we did in for file we're not in for
that we're not here before and that you
can use in your applications and some of
them are pretty good so let's start how
to design a good deal where do you stop
well you start with your data model you
start with your data
you start with what's in your data base
most of the time you have an existing
database that you have to deal with some
of the time you you have the Liberty to
create your own database and that's
better because you can make better
decision to integrate with the US but
you know we know we life is and you have
to integrate with what's already there
what exists you know and deal with this
data baton is right always know we're
going to changes you and giving you nice
access to it stable so when you look at
at swept in your database and and you're
thinking about integrating with UF the
first first thing is think about the
performance implications of the design
if if you have you know if your customer
table as every role as the 10 megabyte
blob in it well you're not going to have
good performance because you're going to
fetch these blobs over and over and over
again is going to take all your time
also when you look at the database
especially you data arrays that's
you know really split in little tables
all over the place and you have a
tendency to think oh I can model that
with object Meriton that would be great
you know I can license 20 layer or
finger items thing and it's going to be
great but the problem is there is a
preference problem with inheritance
inheritance is working but it's it's a
dangerous thing if if you go with with
something that's too deep you're going
to have really really keeping the
performance up and having being able to
fetch all these things not mentioning
that you're going to some time you're
going to have some problems with with us
in certain case of inheritance that you
are going to need to deal with it if you
don't have any inheritance that's way
more way simpler to work with with the
US another thing a trigger installed for
seizures u.s. is working fine with
trigger and for install procedures but
you have some work to do in order to
make this thing work by default we don't
do anything for in this area the work
the worst I've seen was actually an
internal project that effort where we
say we see this internal application and
we decided to try to write a prototype
to replace the existing application
using US and Java client actually and so
we asked the DBA prosody now isn't he in
charge of database a give us database
access right and this person gave us an
access to a database that was really
weird it give us an access to a bunch of
views views on every single database no
no really table just views read-only
views all over the place and to modify
the database was oh we have already
stored procedures that you can call and
doing all the things and what we did
like we were encoding out their business
logic in the stored procedure aware of
the evaluation rules and everything from
the database standpoint that makes some
sense you know from the DBA position it
doesn't want is database to be touched
you know in a way it doesn't understand
it but for a new X point of view
the nightmare you know just is just
insane you cannot just you have to
modify audio updates you have to believe
I already did it you have to modify or
your fetch because of course or the view
was giving us we're doing joint in the
back so they were actively slow in order
to get data we had to to fetch for
multiple views and doing join between
the views and getting the same data
multiple times this is just just insane
and to be right with you we gather we
decided that it was not worth the
trouble and we banged on the GDA and
until he gave us real access to the
database to the real tables and at that
time we discovered why there was views
is because the real database was you
know no database it was revised and
revise and revise and rewrite and it was
just a mess and it took us something
like a week just to understand what was
in the database and finally less thing
you have to think about is how you are
out your primary key are generated in
Kenya in the database that's something
that that's important and we kind of
defer this thing oh I'll deal with it
you know later and you have to sing it
right away because it's going to impact
the design it's going to to change the
way you're going to interact with the
database I have a slide on primary key
generation here showing us the four main
way that u.s. supports generating
primary key primary keys the first is
just ways you control the database
you're the only user of the database or
you're creating the database let the you
adapt or under it just you know if you
have no records as a sequence if you
have Sybase and stored procedures using
Tatom ODBC that's you know just a
separate table that we read and update
and do this kind of things it's working
just fine but you have to be aware that
actually is the slowest where you can do
primary key every time you insert an
object you're going to do a round trip
an additional round trip to the database
to get the primary key for this object
so if you answer you know 200 objects
that's 201 trips
so if you don't insert a lot of objects
that's that's fine if you insert a lot
of objects you may want to try one of
the other approach the second approach
is in your database you make the primary
key of your object and its data or some
kind of blobs are you on the application
side you make this an NS data and you
make it exactly 12 bytes long what's
going to happen there is webber's x UF
is going to generate this primary key
for you just you know creating something
from the process ID the IP address then
a timestamp and some of the stuff we
generate something unique on the
application side and stuff that in the
snapshot and send and send that to the
database server so we don't make any
round-trip so it's way faster you know
it is my stump here where is X 5 for
Java why is it there well you know we're
going to your Java in future we don't
have a process ID right and we have no
way to get one so we had to change this
city really and I just want to point out
that for the next we the Weber objects
the 12 by binary is going to be a 24 by
binary so if you're using this feature
you have to be aware of that because
that means that you your database is
going to need to change when you're
going to transition from 4 5 to 5 for
Java that's why I use this little red
warning there third way of generating
primary keys is to use the delegate
database context new primary key and you
basically do whatever you want in there
you just return a dictionary containing
your primary keys and at the end of it
this is you can for example do that to
widow actor you can you can use
sequences the same way that we do but
instead of asking you know one number at
a time you can just go there and ask for
hundred numbers and and then reuse them
in memory and when you are out of then
you ask for the next batch of 100 that's
a way to to solve the performance issue
with the first one and finally a way
that
actually that's actually already simple
you make the primary key a class for
party attribute so it's part of your
object and in a way coming session you
just stop something in there and that's
your primary key simplest way to do it
so once you have your data model you
understand what's going to be in your
database how you're going to generate
two primary key how you're going to make
you have interface with your stored
procedure how well you're going to deal
with the triggers all this kind of
information where it's time to build
your modified to model it is mapping
between your database and your objects
the first thing is spend time on your
modifier your modified is very important
that's what you advocate that's what the
UF is going to rely on to mess with your
objects so if there is something wrong
in the model file that we are going to
mess something wrong with your objects
so make sure you click on all the
inspector or you look all around you
understand all the checkboxes read the
documentation I've see I've seen I've
seen a bug from the customer one seeing
existing is not working at all and I was
going to help reduce it and impossible
produces a finally I ask you design your
modifier and your database I need this
huge thing in a mail attachment and I
looked at it and looked in the model
file and there was your digital
textbooks like propagate primary key
that was checked on one of the Russian
ships and of course nothing was working
because he was trying to propagate from
our key something that should not
propagate just bad so you know I told
him you know just take some other file
check out this thing it's working just
fine and why did you check this thing
say oh I don't know I just wanted to
know what you think I didn't know what
the thing was doing so just you know
checked it and so this is every single
check box in this little panel is really
important you should check propagate
from RIT you better know what this thing
is doing because otherwise you're going
to get in trouble a good way to see if
your rights on ship are good is where to
spend some time in the model file is a
stupid model file we have we have in our
example to studio
movie and the one you see in all the
demos the reason where you see them in
all the demo is because they are
actually good modified you drop that
them in any demo and your demo is going
to work because modified is well
constructed so what you can do is
compare your relationships if you have
to many many to many relationships go
looking you know in the movie database
the relationship between movie and and
talent for the directors of a movie and
and see if the checkbox are the same way
if the checkbox are not the same way as
you also have something slightly
different try to understand why just
just go look at all these relationships
everywhere
in the in the examples I think we have
all the possible relationship define in
our model file we have too many web to
one with one propagate primary keys we
have you know optional to one monetary
to one I think we have we have almost
everything and last but not least you
know do the demo you know the director
Java client the mood Andres did just
take your mother to take the topic to
Tom played for directed directly
interruption within their compiler thing
run the thing you know and if the
application to get back looks good there
is a really good chance that your model
is good if the application you get back
is showing some Maltese on some kind of
relationships you don't expect there you
know the query window contain all you
wanted is there is probably something
wrong in the relationship because the
way directories of a client work is it's
analyzing your model and making guesses
on what's good and not good based on the
different relationships and how you
specify the relationships if the
optionals are not optional etc so that's
a good way of validating your model side
and finally once you have you know you
have the database that's all set up you
have a model fight to work with it it's
time to implement your logic and I'm
promoting you allergic
you have multiple choices the first one
is between your generic record just the
data you don't need anything else on the
data so that's why that's what that's
walking in all cases second case is you
want you can use custom entreprise
objects where you can actually build
some logic in there and frame up mittens
but when you suppress custom object and
in Java and put your instance variable
here you are every time you change your
model file or you change your database
that's change your model file and then
you want to change your entreprise
object it's going to you're going to
have to do some maintenance because
you're going to have to add and remove
all these instance variable and access
or and stuff so in four five I already
talked about that yesterday I think you
can subclass your generic way code gives
you lace maintenance because you don't
have to maintain of this instance
variable and it gives you better
performance in Java because you don't
have to cross the bridge with all your
attributes all the time so that's that's
an example of who yo generic record
class I like it's a personal preference
I like to have no public final string
with the name so I can just key that
you're coding with no names and this is
the way you want among two accesses
yujeong at first and promote your access
source by the way web objects any of'
when they access your ears don't need
the access or so you don't have to
implement all the list of access or you
know if if you have 30 attributes in
your objects you don't need to implement
you know 60 methods and and 30 is final
strings you can just remove everything
unless you need it in your business
logic to access it keep losing a smaller
if you don't put everything in there
so huge any quicker you can see here
this stored value for key and take
stored value for key singing I want to
talk a little more about this because
when when you F and web objects using
accessing your object to put value into
it or to get value out of your object we
are using key value coding and it's
really important when you did when you
write your you to understand how key
value coding is working and this is
actually this is going to reflect its
meaning to take away yes we have two
ways of accessing your objects we either
use Kiba
recording or we use stone t-value
cutting and for both of this way to
access your object we have get method
and set method and different way of
finding all this information so let's
start with the simplest way Kiva
recording you know your web objects
application you have a binding in your
UI that's bound to your display group
and your object name web objects you're
going to use Kiva recording to get to
your object and what's going to use well
it's going to look in your objects and
see okay what do we have in there is
their method name if there is no method
name is going to look for an instance
variable name name if it's if there
still nothing is going to try for under
bar named as method another name as an
instance variable fairly easy by the way
this search is done only once you know I
want the class we do the search and we
cache information and then we have this
this is saying that you know you don't
want to know okay so this is path even
if it seems that doing a search or
search or search searches it is plenty
food fast the second method is doing
exactly the same thing it's looking for
set method saying set name it's doing is
looking for an instant variable name is
looking for another set name and another
name same kind of search now
Kiba decoding is used by web objects
exclude objects is using only key value
cutting is never using stored key video
coding because web objects is a user of
your eel it's just getting information
from your yield displaying it in the UI
and when the user change something is
putting back something in your al
stored key value coding is another Beach
stop your recording is coming from the
other side of your eel this is something
we use when we fetch data from the
database and put it in your eel so this
third key value coding is used
exclusively by EOF it's mostly used when
we
snap shot it's used when we fetch its
use when there is anything that anything
led us to do with the persistence of the
object we use stored Kaveri coding
instead of using key value cutting so
what are the difference between the two
what the difference are easy that's just
the order of the search we look for the
underbar before looking for the real
thing and the same thing for the set
method so what does this give you
imagine in your object you have an
instance variable name and overall name
and you have a method name and the
method set name so when you're going to
fetch your data from the database we're
going to go straight to your instance
variable it's under the name that's the
first one I'm going to find we're going
to go straight to this instance variable
stuff to design it and that's it
now when and when you save the object we
are going to go straight to the instance
variable again get the data there and
save it to the database now that's
different in key value coding because
you have this method name and this
method set name so that mean that when
when what object mean to access your
your object or when any user is going to
access your object it's it's going to to
execute some some of your code so you
can actually do something else in this
code because it's not going to impact
the fetch the fetch performance because
the fetch grammars going to access the
end of the name first it's not going to
go through your method but so in your
method you can you can a unsub in your
business logic by putting some some kind
of behavior when you do the same name
you can imagine in set name changing a
timestamp on your object to set the
lettuce you know time that your object
was change or anything like that so we
can use this in your business logic and
this is something that most people are
not aware of you can by being careful
you can do some things that are that are
in your in your accesses that are
executed only when a user is changing
something not when we are when us is
fetching of course we can change the
behavior you can say oh you know
I don't want I don't want you to access
my field directly and oh I don't want to
use stored access although justjust
always use key when you're coding and
never use doorkeeper decoding and the
new F is going to behave the same way
than label Jax's little word of warning
again we'll use X type of java key value
coding is the way we do it is we use
your blue key C runtime the way we do it
in four five is we use the objective-c
runtime even if you're in Java we use
the objective-c runtime that means that
if you have a you know private string
name who cares about the private right
the objective-c one time we just touch
the data in your private value but no
problem well we've done queue Java and
pure Java the sling interesting is they
have this security thing and when you
have a private thing it's really private
can't access it so an same thing for
protected if you are in a separate
package and and your your instance
variable is protected where we won't be
able to access it with key value coding
or stored key value coding or whatever
so look look at your yields actually
look at your components - if you have
anything that's private or protected
maybe keys are occurring won't be able
to access it when you converge to move
objects I for Java it's probably going
to be covered by your is not somewhere
because it's going to be an interesting
problem we have some solutions you can
put everything for private there is no
solution for private is private we can't
access it for prorated we have some
solution that we can you know run some
loops around and do something there but
be aware of that value date variation
student promoting geologic validation
validates name or validate you know
first name validate whatever valid
salary just something on this method on
your object is going to be called
automatically when a web object is
changing you every time it's going to be
call automatically if web object is
changing our display group is changing
in all of the cases it's not going to be
a very you see this 12 X 5 for Java you
notice that my validate name is taking
an object not a string actually I think
the let us build now we can put a string
in there so I should have removed this
sticker because we actually fixed it so
you can put string or you can put
objects and we're going to find the
method the method way that will say if I
edit or delete by delayed for in sir
by default before you of them do exactly
the same thing they go to the modifier
basically and shake you know everything
you check on the model file if it's
mandatory not mandatory whatever and
it's also calling all this validate
methods plated name and whatever you can
override these methods on your you if
you override them called super because
we don't go super all the validation
that you modify is never going to happen
and don't update your objects while
you're doing a validation your
validating something that somebody's
passing you you are not changing your
object at that time changing your object
is done in set name and it's pre method
very dead four-digit value did for
insert I call at the end of the request
response loop and various for save is of
course code every time you press Save
button in your editing context automated
you can implement on your yield unable
to set null for key if in your database
you have some kind of number or flow
whatever and in your ear you have float
or a double or something that you cannot
put knurl in it this method is going to
be code on the audio if this method
doesn't exist we are going to for an
exception and in this method you can do
the behavior you want you can you know
use another variable to note that this
exact winner interesting method also
away from insertion is called every time
you insert an object into anything in
context we could work insertion it's a
good place to do all the initialization
for your object and finally awake from
fetch that's what
we get your object from the database we
fetch it you put it into your editing
context we call away from fetch when
we're done with it you can use this away
from fetch method to set up for example
the right value if you have you know
customer object is the first name and
last name and you want a full name
access so in a way from fetch you know
you can read this full name actually
this is a bad example I won't recommend
that good like we do that lazy with the
full name the first time somebody's
asking for it but there is some
interesting thing you can do in their
method you should not overwrite on the
other hand I probably will change and
we'll read will read is useful faulting
and will change is use to detect that
you are maybe going to change the
subject maybe let's not guaranteed when
will change is called maybe the object
is not going to change after all so if
you use will change say obscene use of
will change saying okay I'm going to
override will change and every time a
receiver will change I'm going to change
the timestamp on my object is my object
you going to change so I want to light
this time stop this is actually not the
right place to do it because it's it's
cold sometimes when there is no changes
at all I choose a good it was faster I'm
going to run out of time their ration
tip management's the only only one
method you should know about is that
object both citation ship is key if you
use anything else you might run into
trouble because if you model change and
you don't change your logic you may get
some kind of an constituency this method
is the only one that's taking care of
everything if you use this method
everywhere you're safe
you have the ration ship you don't have
relationships the class properties not
the class property is going to work in
all cases so it's a long method to tag
but you are known you have you have
completion in project builder so that's
you know easy you press f2 and windows
and escape on my question servants just
filling the blank so please use this one
and I don't have time time to go into
that GPO is clean
don't put you access specific code in
there don't put weather object specific
code in there because if you do that one
day you're going to regret it
if you have your use on your you on the
server using web objects and you put
some waiver Jake specific code that you
tie this thing with your component and
whatever and then you know a month later
you have your manager coming and say hey
you know we need the Java client look
cooler so that wEDC
I want this thing in Java client
tomorrow all right and if you have good
objects code in there you won't be able
to do it because you know in Java client
on the client side there is no web
object you just have UF right and you
don't have you access either you have
your distribution so keep these things
separate everything you need for new is
inside here control the only one
exception that I can agree on is the
utilities each reason is actually in EU
access and it's bringing things that
I'll use pretty that things common
things back back to your ear so you can
they don't really use utilities we have
any utility in Java client to that's
working different it is working with
your distribution to the working with
with you access so that's it for the
first part of our presentation you know
how I see you should do a good you start
from from the bottom start from from the
data and video your model spend time on
your model really important spend time
and you invalidate Ramudu you model make
sure that that is correct
don't let your junior programmer go in
there and click on those check boxes
because you want to see what the thing
is working and and the last thing you do
is implement you allergic you can of
course cycle this thing okay it's not a
rigid thing you have to do it you know
Erev so a wreck on stage it told me to
do this this and this no you can you can
cycle you to just just be careful when
you cycle to keep everything in sync
and keeps the thing in sync for all the
way from the top to the bottom there
were some eight on its ways of doing
this
if you are starting fresh and writing an
application and you have control over
everything you can start from the model
file and then generate the database but
personally as you prefer to start with
with the database but that's probably a
personal preferences portions at this
point so let's move on to the new
features in four five the thing that
might cause you trouble or might
actually save you but in some cases
first one or we talk about subclass you
generic code and we're going to spend
more time on it as giving you
performance this year if you are in four
five using Java and giving it's more
flexible than then customer objects
slash maintenance and and and us for it
you know raise your hands once the one
we asked for supplies subclass abiogenic
record that's that what did you bother
ok actually I think I think maybe there
was only one person but he was really
vocal them important feature in four
five shared it in context this is your
regular web object application with to
lead in context to object graphs as
actually sitting in context and what
shared editing context introduced is a
way to have another editing context that
in the middle and that contain some
objects that are shared by all the other
editing contexts in your application so
this shared it in contact in the middle
is read-only because if you share that
out you cannot change that I you know
remember that every editing context on
both side may be running a different
thread and this kind of things so this
data in the middle is read-only no way
to change it these objects in the middle
also our only destination of
ration ships because you know the
Chevrolet ships going outside of the
Sheraton context to another editing
context you know and imagine that you
have something the relationship going
from this blue object there to the
proper leading context now you're in the
read it in context and you follow the
ration ship now I'm going to do blue
object to the blue object and then I'm
following this also relationship and you
do end up having an object graph that's
spawning multiple EDD contexts and
that's bad you don't want to do that
ever never never don't do that if you do
it you're going to every big trouble and
we had crashes and everything so keep
the so that the ideas unique in scope
change in a formula - OH - to us - OH -
web objects for 4.01 the unique in scope
was an editing context that was the end
of the story
now the unique in scope changes the
editing context plus its eventual share
the dinning context the two together is
your unique in scope you have to be
aware of it in some cases but unless you
but really if you're doing some weird
things usually it's fairly transparent
to put your objects into the share it in
context there is a checkbox in your
muddler you can check to say oh this
thing is shared and that's it and now no
matter where you fetch it when you fetch
it into going to be in shared context
and that's going to be shared between
all the all the use of the editing
context in your application everywhere
it's good for read-only data is good for
example if you have a catalogue app you
can put all your products in the end you
know rivers browsing your catalog
application is reusing the same objects
over and over again
third interesting feature snapchat with
Counting talked we talked about it
yesterday also you fetch an object
needing context we create a snapshot
down there right now you fetch an object
in an other editing context we now rest
count this snapshot and when the two
objects are gone from memory the
snapshot is going to it's just really
simple that's that's a feature you
always thought was already in you if
right so now it is as if you reduce
memory footprint if your snapshot
freshness because you know if nobody is
using any memory it's gone
so next time you need it you are going
to refresh it so it's going to be
fresher a couple of good shells with
this feature that are actually
interesting if you used to use global ID
if this actually this gocha's this one
apply only to Objective C if you used to
use your global ID all the way around
and passing global ID to move an object
from one eating context to another you
know look at your code make sure you
retain it because now global IDs are
going away before they were never going
away but now they are and I'm pointing
this thing because actually we add the
problem in our example framework in the
movie example if you give the 401 and
the four fives are going to see the bug
so be careful with that and if your
application assume that because you
fetch an object once you have the
snapshot down there that's not true
anymore
I don't think you should make assumption
like that anywhere but if you do be
careful when you move to four five next
feature is actually the others to
explain the simple concept it's
difficult to explain so the middle arrow
up there at the top is a timeline going
from the past to the future and I'm
let's say I'm creating an editing
context so in my timeline I have this
properly reading context
there now I fetch an object into this
editing context at the time of the fetch
we you access is putting a time stamp on
this snapshot saying hey every seed is
the snapshot from the database at that
time you know and market remember it now
you click a second editing context and
such an object into it so every editing
context as the lag time when we mean by
like time when the time of the creation
of the leading context - is like time
give us an absolute date and this is
from this absolute day we determine if
we can use a snapshot or not it's a
snapshot we have in memory is after this
absolute date we are going to use it
it's a snapshot we have in memory is
before we just are going to try this
natural and fetch it fetch it with the
object again so here you can see that
when after this fetch I snapshots at
that time on the timeline and then I
created the second editing context and
the date such give me the absolute time
is the date of the creation of the
leading context and in that case we see
that this object there is fine it's in
my time lag so I'm going to reuse a
snapshot now if I create a third editing
context here you see the timeline again
and then the lag time and you see that
the object is not in the lag in the lag
time so in that case in the third it in
context is I expect the object I'm going
to actually respect from the database
updated snapshot and of course send the
notification thing of objection of
objects change in store and data object
everywhere is a snapshot change and we
put a new time stamp on this object on
this snapshot so next time and nobody
can rotate things you need it it's going
to be there so what does that mean that
means that every time you create a new
it in context
have the potential to research some
objects from the database because you're
editing context was created later so you
can control the freshness of the data
the shorter of the lag time you use
between your photo editing context
the shorter life span your snapshots are
going to have that mean that if you
don't use the objects if you don't fetch
these objects really often you are not
going to update and generate all these
freshness update all over the castle
place it means that we are going to
fetch from the database only if you need
it and we are going to refresh only if
only if you know we know that when
you're really enjoy editing context
knows it and it is also an easy way to
get updated data you want to update a
certain graph of objects in your
application where that's really easy you
create a leading context
you said is fetch timestamp to now so
you remove all the lag so you're
creating ignore Tex you remove all the
lag decide which everything now and you
fetch the object graph you want to fetch
all right that's going to mean that
you're going to update the snapshots at
the bottom for every single object that
you're fetching this new leading context
and at the same time refresh things in
all your in all your other leading
contexts so you can you can use this
instead of fetch refreshes fetch
specification with the refreshing
objects and all that that's actually
another way to perform the same task
that I think is exactly little cleaner
but it's possible only with four five
still following nobody's sleeping it
fine different 14 another four five
feature this is so a three four five
education we're switching you know
you're fetching a bunch of objects and
what does I find when you fetch an
object you know you fetch the object and
then for every relationship around the
subject we're creating a full now either
or two unfolding like I have in my
little graphic they're all too many fold
so that means that's all if if you're on
TT as something like you know ten
relationships and you fetch fifty
objects where you are going to create
this 50 object and you're going to
create another 500 objects around them
right so fetch performance it impacted
by these kind of things it's usually
fine but we have to add the performance
it's actually a really good feature of
course it's a trade-off you know if we
don't do that that means that we don't
have a transparency of do you just
following a pointer and get information
that at the end of water and having the
fault firing for you you will have to do
accurate something so what's different
14 different 14 says when you fetch an
object and there is ten relationships we
are going to create one object per
relationship no more so if you fetch if
I retake my example again yeah ten
relationships and you fetch 50 objects
you're going to create your 50 objects
but you only are going to create ten
objects for your ration ships and we're
going to make every single deal that you
fetch point to these shared objects
because in shared object different food
these objects actually note folds just a
way to get a fault later and all of that
work is when you need to definition of
the relationship before following the
pointer you
different fool give me my rifle give me
the thing I should have got when I fetch
and we have a numerator to do that this
name will read relationship and you pass
yourself as an argument and you send
that to the default food and you get the
read food this feature is optional you
don't have to mathematic it's giving you
big advantages advantages it's giving
you faster fetches and it's less memory
usage because you don't create all these
objects over the place and the only
method you should know to work with this
with is we'd-we'd relationship when I
say it's optional it's actually optional
unless you use a generic record if you
so class you generic record you generic
record is using default holding all over
the place
but it's completely transparent for you
because you don't have instance variable
you just access the dictionary just odd
key value coding and starts evaluating
on Yeojin Erica knows how to do these
things so it's completely transparent
for you another interesting side effect
of this feature is inheritance remember
inheritance when you pointing when
you're in Objective C and you have a
relationship to the top of inheritance
tree there when we fetch your object we
create your relationship but we don't
know what kind of objects going to be at
the end of relationship it could be you
know the top of any returns 3 or
anything below any kind of objects so
the way we do that in objective-c is
saying a you know we don't know which
object is going to be so we are going to
create we're going to look at the tiaki
and create the largest object the
largest piece of memory that could fit
one of these objects and allocate the
thing there and then when we file the
fold we are going to play some tricks
with with the objective-c runtime
changing yeah is a pointer to point to
the right class and doing some some
insane things in their default folding
actually get rid of all of that because
default for thing you have a different
food you don't have the real
object so that means when you throwing
the food what we do is there is any
inheritance involved we are going to go
fetch from the database the information
and get the role before creating the
object so we know what objects we need
we need to create and the tricks the
trick we are playing in Objective C is
actually not walking at all in Java in
Java you just say object new object and
that's the end of it there's no way to
turn the either pointer and do all these
neat magic that we used to do so the
only way in pure Java that inheritance
is going to work this way yeah different
folding so another 4/5 feature database
reconnection info five if you lose your
connection to the database we're going
to try to reconnect automatically number
of us call is saying you can change the
behavior we have two delegates that you
can use you can if there is if we try if
we lose the connection to database
before we try to work on like we ask you
some questions in age who I try to
reconnect the same database to another
database or do you want to under the
reconnection by yourself one thing we
need to know is all these things assume
that you're connecting to the same
database that mean that we are not
throwing away any snapshots so if you're
connecting to a different database it's
your responsibility to make sure that
your snapshots match what are in the
database so you don't have optimistic
locking failure when you shouldn't have
one we change the behavior of missing
codes coming coming back to how do you
create all you create an object you know
you fetch an object and you have a fault
to this it's only four to one you have
your relationship to a two to another
object and this object when you fetch
you have a foreign key for you know so
you are going to create we can create a
global ready create this thing and say
okay we need the subject later here it
is and then you touch it subjects you go
to the
surveys and the subjects not their
groups what happening for and before was
we just give up and say oh you don't
have to subject them database your
database it is consistent too bad let's
for an exception problem with this
exception it was thrown all over the
place you don't know where to cache it
could be while false following something
your business logic could be worth
following a dot notation inside inside
with objects to some kind of bindings it
was actually thrown all over the place
it was really really hard to catch so in
four or five we are not sending an
exception when we discover these
problems we are just knowing that there
is a problem and we send you an MC an
empty object
the exception is going to be thrown safe
if you try to save and don't do anything
about this object you're going to get an
exception to yet you're trying to save
something but your database was
inconsistent in the first place to deal
with it and you can at this point insert
this new object and do everything you
can use the delegate to control the
behavior where you put a nicer delegate
this is the only one delegate you need
to know for this is database context
fail to fetch object if you want to
produce behavior you can just for an
exception in there and that's it
you have the previous behavior or in
this method you can actually deal with
the problem and say oh yeah I'm missing
the subject let me go insert it into the
database we fetch it and do all that and
it's going to be fine for five feature
another one that's good
this one I love it a new editor you
adapt your context your database context
you can collimator that set default
delegate oh it's a class later you call
this once and be done with it you don't
have to go fishing tracking or the exit
or also notification a I have created a
new channel a wedgie let me do these
delegate of this thing just one place
and you're the delegate over everything
yeah
I don't know what we didn't do that
before just probably two hours I'm kind
of this thing everywhere and just it's a
lifesaver wait another four five feature
a Depp adapter a lot of requests for a
lab adapter yeah we want to access at
that we want to validate or user we want
to you know to have all these things so
now we have an elaborate or interesting
the LDAP adapter can you know read the
date
delete it's an adapter it's working like
any other you adapt or in UF the
interesting thing is you don't need a
model file to do authentication don't
need to build a big model file to do
that authentication is actually a really
simple protocol so the LF adapter has a
static method that authenticates user
and you pass its username the password
and the information about you know total
depth thing is there what subtree what
you know and this thing is returning is
retaining what is the thing we're
joining probably returning a boolean
yes/no
easy choice it was can you is this user
of legitimate honor so this thing
interesting is this is interesting
figure because it's really lightweight
and you don't need a new model for it
and that's the most common use of the
LDAP adapter so here we go
list of sort of five features I went
over I don't think it's completely
missing a couple but these are the most
important ones in UF
that I want I want to before we finish
the thing I want to stress one thing
that I've seen done over and over and
over again and I'd like I'd like to - I
don't know which reference you're not
doing these things again is a thing a
lot of our customers trying to force
with UF to work in the way they think us
should work right and it's you know you
think oh you it should work this way so
we know is know EF is walking this way
so I'm writing my code thinking that e
what is working this way and then I come
to the concrete after a while I say hey
this is not walking like this at all
Jesus he was walking this other way and
instead of instead of trying to fit with
the UF what you're trying to do is you
know coerce us into coming there and
work the way I want it to work
dammit you know and after that you know
the pod of month later will receive I'd
sit in my office I receive an email from
super or telling me you know I have this
Wilberg and I don't understand it so I
look at the dog comfortable you see done
anything and and and then the judge send
me an example well you know it's the
world customer application is 20 mega
stuf and you end up buying trying to
find reproduce this thing and you don't
end up finding that it's because try it
you try to coerce its into working the
way you think it should work and and not
try to use it the way it work and you by
doing that you know you're going to
introduce bugs it's going to be
impossible for for us to fix them
because it's actually in your code right
so message work with the u.s. not
against it just try to understand how he
wife is working and try to play with us
the reserves there is a lot of room to
play with us if we have delegates
everywhere
we have a lot of ropes that you can hang
yourself with you don't need to do your
stuff to one yourself we can just
usually where the weight was intended to
be and you can you know it should eat
yourself with it so take that as a
message please try to work with it try
to understand our us is working us is
repour foot there with a lot of features
in it if you think there is something
that the u.s. is not doing well talk to
somebody else maybe is going to tell you
a different view that we there is always
ten ways of doing something and there is
ten ways there is three that are you
know going to work well with the US and
there is seven that I'm not going to
work well with you have try to use the
three that are going to work with the US
and that's it
you